feat(android): Add Jetpack Compose navigation instrumentation docs (#5700)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/android/configuration/integrations/jetpack-compose.mdx

  - mobile
---

The `sentry-compose` library provides [Jetpack Compose](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/androidx/releases/compose) Navigation support for Sentry.

On this page, we get you up and running with Sentry's Compose Navigation Integration, so that it will automatically add a breadcrumb and start a transaction for each navigation event.

## Auto-Installation With the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin

> If you're using the [Sentry Android Gradle Plugin](/platforms/android/gradle/), the Jetpack Compose Navigation Integration is automatically applied. In this case both breadcrumbs and transactions are automatically created for every navigation event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using the [Sentry Android Gradle Plugin](/platforms/android/gradle/), the Jetpack Compose Navigation Integration is automatically applied, and both breadcrumbs and transactions are automatically created for every navigation event.
```

> If you're using the [Sentry Android Gradle Plugin](/platforms/android/gradle/), the Jetpack Compose Navigation Integration is automatically applied. In this case both breadcrumbs and transactions are automatically created for every navigation event.

Reviewer 2: Can we still add the `### Install` header here? For example, this is how the structure looks for OkHttp docs:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4999776/198664186-3872d97f-d5f4-4945-a4cc-3a3a78bbc0ec.png)

So I'd like to align them for consistency.

Reviewer 2: Also, the code snippet for using the Gradle plugin is missing - so just check the okhttp page maybe for prior art. Thanks ;)

<Note>

> Learn more about the Sentry Android Gradle plugin in our [Gradle](/platforms/android/gradle/) documentation. Details about the Auto-Installation can be found in the [Auto Instrumentation section](/platforms/android/gradle/#tracing-auto-instrumentation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more about the Sentry Android Gradle plugin in our [Gradle](/platforms/android/gradle/) documentation. Details about auto-installation can be found in the [Auto Instrumentation](/platforms/android/gradle/#tracing-auto-instrumentation) section.
```

</Note>

### Disable

> If you would like to disable the Jetpack Compose instrumentation feature, you can adapt your `build.gradle(.kts)` file accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to disable the Jetpack Compose instrumentation feature, you can adapt your `build.gradle(.kts)` file like so:
```

```groovy
import io.sentry.android.gradle.extensions.InstrumentationFeature

sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled = true
    features = EnumSet.allOf(InstrumentationFeature) - InstrumentationFeature.COMPOSE
  }
}
```

```kotlin
import java.util.EnumSet
import io.sentry.android.gradle.extensions.InstrumentationFeature

sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled.set(true)
    features.set(EnumSet.allOf(InstrumentationFeature::class.java) - InstrumentationFeature.COMPOSE)
  }
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Manual Installation

> Sentry captures data by adding a `withSentryObservableEffect` extension function to `NavHostController`. To add the Navigation integration, install the [Android SDK](/platforms/android/), then add the `sentry-compose` dependency using Gradle:

Reviewer 2: Also would add the `### Install` header here
